hey everyone welcome back from our
history of Hong Kong part 3 today
everything is gonna become official in
this episode with a China history
podcast last time in part two we went as
far as the Tuan beats hall yeah the
convention of Trent B that meant well
but didn't please anyone on either side
no one on the British side liked it and
neither did the Emperor and his minders
so today we're gonna pick up from that
point in January of 1841 now the Treaty
of Nanjing gets signed in August of 1842
so we have 19 months between the Tuan
beat saga and the Nanjing key oh yes so
without further ado let's go examine the
gory details of what happened and why
poor old Chi shun remember him he
couldn't please his boss the dull Quang
Emperor and neither could he please
Captain Charles Elliot chief Shan was
way down in the south
no Skype no QQ WeChat nothing not even a
fax machine and he's trying to deal with
Elliot who although a most civil and
diplomatic kind of guy was no doubt
still breathing heavily down XI Sean's
neck and he was getting unbearable
pressure from the Emperor to be tough
with these British don't give an inch at
the same time Elliot was putting maximum
pressure and she shot like only a pushy
foreigner knows how to do he was really
leaning on XI Shan in so many words
saying you better tell your boss we mean
business and the Emperor was saying
don't sign anything
so despite trying to make the best of a
hopeless situation Chi shine was simply
overtaken by events and got himself
swept up by the tide of history the dog
Wong Emperor was completely insulated
from reality the retinue that surrounded
him in the palace all Manchus they kept
him in the dark the emperor even as the
opium war was about to erupt still
hardly knew anything about Britain he
had no idea what kind of a place it was
you know what it was all about nothing
he seemed fascinated about the one thing
he did know about you know they had a
young queen who you know ruled them on
how is it that such a nation was giving
China so much heat those who had access
to the Emperor controlled everything he
saw or heard now as I mentioned last
time when the whole convention of trend
B was concluded the British traders had
mixed feelings they thought having a
place like Hongkong to base their
operations was convenient and you know
he had almost no downside they no longer
had to cool their heels in Macau where
they were hardly welcomed you know but
the Portuguese tolerated them somewhat
so having a place like Hong Kong worked
out great but they had one single
condition that one thing that captain
Elliott did I guess - perhaps appease
the Chinese saying that even though
trade was carried out in Hong Kong as
far as tariffs you know and whatnot went
everything would be handled as if they
were carrying out the transactions in
wan-koo or Whampoa you know the port of
Canton that really didn't sit well with
anyone on the British side now the
captains of trade and those back in
London were wondering what the heck was
the use of carrying this big fat stick
if he didn't use it it was already well
known both in London and amongst the
traders that the military superiority of
Britain was way beyond anything China
had at this time in the Ching dynasty
why didn't they just take all the
marbles all those of Lord Palmerston
silk belief that Elliott had been too
soft a touch
Lord Palmerston in a letter to Elliott
regarding his settlement at UNB said
quote you have disobeyed and neglected
your instructions you seem to have
considered my instructions were waste
paper which you might treat with entire
disregard and that you were at full
liberty to deal with the interests of
your country according to your own fancy
without the full employment of that
force which was sent to you expressly
for the purpose of enabling you to use
compose
if persuasion should fail I cannot
understand why you omitted to employ
that force for the very purpose for
which it was sent this was the time when
Palmerston you know scoffed at this
whole thing and uttered his legendary
words about settling for some useless
and barren island with hardly a house
upon it Oh Lord Palmerston could only
know that in 2012 flats and the best
parts of that barren Island would be
going for $7,500 US per square foot hey
who knew how could Palmerston have known
the payback on this deal captain
Elliott's truck would be right up there
with the 24 bucks Peter Minuit paid for
all of Manhattan from the native Lenape
tribe of Indians Eliot disagreed with
Palmerston s way of looking at it from
the point of view of a career naval
officer in the British Navy Captain
Charles Eliot could see the sheer and
utter perfection of this Harbor that
separated Hong Kong Island from a
peninsula that he could envision filled
with ships lined up by the hundreds
dropping off and picking up cargo
serving the role in southern China that
Singapore was already performing
effectively as a Merchandise Mart in
Southeast Asia Lord Palmerston also by
the way was the one who during the u.s
Civil War sided with the Confederates
and said you know the North would never
be able to keep the South in the Union
did he get buried with his foot in his
mouth or what and after his dismissal by
Palmerston and after Palmerston was
replaced by Lord Aberdeen this is the
fourth Earl of Aberdeen George Hamilton
Gordon Elliot wrote to him quote a port
such as Hong Kong had the advantages of
a large and safe harbour abundance of
fresh water ease of protection by
maritime ascendancy and no more extent
of territory or population than may be
necessary for our convenience
Sir John Barrow who was then secretary
of the Admiralty once
said of Hong Kong it had quote an
excellent harbour for ships of any size
which might be defended against a
superior force in time of war it had a
good roadstead for the Anchorage of a
multitude of ships and plenty of fresh
water here a few guns mounted and men to
work them with a ship of war would
afford protection to merchant shipping
and the small vignette in this one of
the ideas floating around the Foreign
Office at the time was the idea of
taking Formosa you know as one of the
choices a muy mucho and Jo Shan neared
Ningbo you know were were others Barrow
shot back his thoughts about that by
saying if no one had noticed Formosa or
Taiwan that is was rather larger than
Ireland and might therefore be somewhat
troublesome to take and hold in any case
Lord Palmerston would later see the
merit and Burroughs advice but he still
thought why limit themselves down in the
South when a stronghold off the coast of
Ningbo in Joe Shan would be right there
on the Yangtze where since the fifth
century BC everything and everything
flowed in and out of the China heartland
thanks to the Grand Canal and the
Yangtze that was where Palmerston on a
lot of traders had their sights on that
place would have been ideal Elliott had
also written to one of his kin Lord
Auckland than the governor-general of
India ill advising against any thoughts
of pushing for a base off the East China
coast he wrote I take the liberty to
record my opinion that a treaty which
consigns British merchants and ships to
the ports of Amoy Ningbo and Shanghai
will do no more than place very valuable
hostages in the hands of an irritated
government with what may be taken to be
a certainty that the impatience of our
merchants and the perfidy of the Chinese
will rapidly produce new troubles
that Her Majesty's government must keep
the island of Hong Kong in the immediate
organisation of the settlement upon a
very firm and comprehensive footing is
not a question but in the strictest
terms a necessity
now despite Commodore sir Gordon Bremer
declaring sovereignty over Hong Kong On
January 26 1841 at possession point
Eliot by February 1841 knew this whole
trend be thing wasn't gonna happen and
therefore they had to go to plan B
possession point by the way after years
of land reclamation and development
would be somewhere near where possession
street rounds into Queens Road right
near the Macau ferry terminal that's
where Captain and later Admiral Edward
Belcher wrote quote we landed on Monday
the 26th at fifteen minutes past eight
and being the bonafide first possessors
Her Majesty's health was drank with
three chairs on possession mount that's
right by that Circle K over there haein
Belcher he had a street named after him
two over in Kennedy town so Plan B
called for the British ships to forced
their way into the Bogue and into the
Pearl River all the way to Whampoa this
is exactly what they did and in no time
at all the pork was theirs and the Union
Jack was flying over the factories from
which they had been previously forcibly
ejected and for a while at least it was
business as usual half a million pounds
a day of tea was loaded on board vessels
who would take it back to Europe in the
meanwhile under these shaky
circumstances Elliott began taking all
kinds of ad hoc measures to begin
establishing some semblance of order and
administration in Hong Kong useful
projects like roads were begun at the
main thoroughfare and the first being
Queens Road in his urgency to get the
merchants to come set up shop in Hong
Kong Elliott offered quaked favourable
land grants that later on had office
London said were too favorable and
refused to honor but in order to get the
Jardine's and the dents and all the
merchant princes to come to Hong Kong
Charles Eliot was most industrious and
convincing
there was no governor yet so Eliot's
in his capacity as superintendent of
trades sort of served as the chief
executive for the time being
his main legal official was William came
of cane Road up in the mid levels he was
the one who meted out justice for most
of the common problems of the day July
21st 1841 so early in the game Hong
Kong's residents got to enjoy their
first typhoon everything constructed up
to that moment which was ramshackle at
best was destroyed in the storm now that
they had a good taste of a typhoon they
kept this in the back of their mind and
decided to build things a little more
solid next time I think this may have
been the typhoon that killed Mei Mei and
dirt strewn in tide pan I'll check on
that it was that later
anyway opium was outlawed but the
unwritten rule at the time was that the
opium problem was China's to deal with
the British side would neither encourage
nor protect opium smugglers but they
didn't make it their policy to go after
them either in other words status quo
business as usual the dal Quang Emperor
taking the advice of the anti Western
faction who controlled his ear had made
the decision to attack the foreigners
and use overwhelming force to evict them
from China and while they were at it
snatch Hong Kong back to his man now
down in the South was young fun he was
the one tasked to take over from chief
Shan young Fung ended up finding himself
in the same hopeless corner is she
shunned he walked on this knife edge of
trying to say anything that would
placate and assure the Emperor that he
was you know standing up to the British
in battle and at the same time you know
with Eliot's
you know making all those demands
keeping the trade flowing he was doomed
from the get-go and once the emperor got
wind of what this guy was doing he can't
him the next one to get the dirty job
was Shawn
he didn't fare any better than his
predecessors as a negotiator
there were 2395 troops under the command
of Major General Sir Hugo 'the local
hong kongers might recognize that name
from gulf hill or gufu tion with the
loss of only one single soldier the gulf
took Canton for all intents and purposes
that is I mean this was no knockout
punch or anything but with this show of
force by the British the Chinese had
figured out that with their
eighteenth-century muskets and dearth of
training and discipline wherever and
whenever these two sides faced off
against each other this was never gonna
be a fair fight
surfing alongside major-general Sir Hugh
Gulf was Admiral William Parker 1st
baronet these two Golf and Parker they
were the ones doing most of the
clobbering over the years the Western
media sometimes would pay particular
attention to one incident or tempest in
a teapot between China and another
Western country where China's response
is you know particularly bellicose and a
lot of that which you hear even today
has this time in history to thank the
early 1840s this is a scab that keeps
getting knocked off it happens once in a
while worthy I'll buy Shing feel their
government isn't standing up to the west
on some issue or another in this whole
episode and history is trotted out and
pointed at when the occasion arises
sometimes the government in China has to
be mindful of this past humiliation and
do or say things to make sure their
citizens don't compare them to the
Manchus of the 1840s one other
interesting thing going on in the
background all this time in the City of
Canton Guangzhou a lot of people and I
mean a lot
earn their daily bread and a lot and in
a lot of cases their sizeable fortunes
on this trade with the British and all
the Westerners who
called at the port of Whampoa a lot of
local people depended on this trade
either they had skin in the game and
were themselves engaged in the buying
and selling of commodities or
manufactured goods or they were just you
know a cog in the wheel clerks laborers
stevedores captains of their own lorch's
you know whatever so keep in mind
although this was a confrontation
between China and Great Britain you had
a lot of people down south we're asking
why should we back the emperor up in
this case why should we act against
their own self-interests there was the
scent in the air amongst those who
worked in this trading and manufacturing
industry that this was a political
problem that the Manchu Qing rulers
needed to sort out themselves the
Cantonese merchants didn't want to do
anything to destroy their own livelihood
so the point being when all the fighting
was going on and when the British were
at their most forceful in making their
demands these guys who were you know
sent down by the Emperor to act tough
they just crumbled they became fully
aware that on the Chinese side many were
working against him they couldn't win no
matter what no one was gonna let them
not the British and to a large extent
the locals as well so we all know the
story April 21st 1841 captain Charles
Eliot was recalled back to England and
it's here where Sir Henry Pottenger
enters from stage right appointed May
3rd 1841 now sir Henry's instructions
were clear he was to hold on to Hongkong
and check the place out and get the lay
of the land to evaluate its usefulness
to Britain but at the same time he was
to look for a better spot to plant the
flag on the east coast or nearer to
Canton he had arrived in Macao August
10th 1841 from this point forward the
diplomacy that Eliot had tried and
failed to carry out was replaced with
Sir Henry pottinger's more militaristic
ways of providing solutions to certain
challenges without waste
anytime he set out for the east coast of
China with his force of 2,500 men under
the able command of Sir William Parker
1st baronet in no time at all the
captured shaman on October 1st and then
Joe Shan and nink boss shortly
thereafter winter set in and the
expedition then sailed back to Macau to
wait for the return of spring and then
to finish up what they started while
they were wintering in the south the
Tories came to power which as I
mentioned just before saw Lord Aberdeen
replacing Palmerston as foreign
secretary he didn't see Hong Kong as
anything more than a future bargaining
chip and it was in he was in the camp of
those who didn't care whether Hong Kong
or any other Island was secured as long
as free trade opened up at the usual
ports along the east coast
Pottinger was of a different mindset by
now and was convinced of Hong Kong's
usefulness and criticality to the future
commercial efforts of Britain in China
then in the year of the tiger the water
tiger that is March 1842 things get
going again when the Chinese try to take
back Ning Bonner decisively beaten back
nine minutes was all it took to smash Jo
Sean's defenses this was a one-sided
affair if there ever was one and the
British just steamrolled over the
Chinese defenders then in June they took
the city of Wu song at the mouth of the
Yangtze River followed by Shanghai and
then July 21st 1842 after taking Jun
Jung home of the best vinegar in China
they closed down the Grand Canal and
more or less shut down the Yangtze River
by August of 1842 there was nothing
standing in between the British forces
and the city of Nanjing meanwhile on the
Chinese side once again the Ching
dynasty ruler and his administration
were scrambling trying to find a way to
deal with the situation at hand acting
in his role as plenipotentiary pottinger
was not in a compromising mood the days
gone by with Captain Charles le
velvet glove were over he gave the
orders to go full steam ahead and attack
Nanjing now with nan Jing cornered the
Emperor and his whole court knew this
choked off the whole supply chain for
the grain ships making their northern
runs up the Grand Canal for that and
other reasons the deciders up in Beijing
knew the truth
they were outgunned and if they didn't
acquiesce to these demands it could get
much worse for them in the dynasty
therefore on August 29th 1842 a date
which has lived an infamy in China the
Treaty of Nanjing was concluded the
terms are well known but let's go
through them anyway China had to pay war
reparations worth 21 million 6 million
of which had already been paid against
the convention of 20 this 21 million was
to cover the loss of the opium destroyed
on Lin's eschews orders in March of 1839
as well as all debts owed by the co Hong
plus the whole cost of the British
expedition most important though and the
main thing they wanted the Canton system
was smashed and four new ports were open
to free trade these were the usual
suspects mo i fou Cho Ming ba and
Shanghai British subjects and consuls
were allowed to reside there and the
consuls acted as real consuls no more
funny business now Britain and China
were equals and engaged in trade and
diplomacy as equals oh I bet that was
particularly distasteful up in the
Forbidden City other stuff you know
exchange of prisoners agreements
unreasonable tariff rates and whatnot
were also hammered out oh and also hong
kong was seated in perpetuity which last
time I checked meant forever and ever
and the Chinese lived with that whole
matter of seating Hong Kong for 155
years the Chinese called this whole
Treaty of Nanjing the first of the boule
Pingdom kallea or the unequal treaties
beckoned London they raised a glass of
sherry or two
Dean had insisted to henery Pottinger
that hang on to Hong Kong or any chunk
of land large or small in the South
China Sea was by no means essential and
not part of the ultimate objective of
the mission but Pottinger he wrote back
to Lord Aberdeen about this and had
given his fully loaded unabashed
thumbs-up regarding Hong Kong and
hanging on to this barren rock as
Aberdeen's predecessor Lord Palmerston
had called it Lieutenant General Sir
Henry Pottenger 1st baronet GCB PC he
wrote quote the retention of Hong Kong
is the only single point in which I
exceeded my modified instructions but
every single hour I have passed in the
superb country has convinced me of the
necessity and desirability of our
possessing such a settlement as an
Emporium for our trade and a place from
which Her Majesty's subjects in China
may be alike protected and controlled
after several rounds of back-and-forth
and given the speed of communications
way back then it wasn't until June 26th
1843 that a final ratified treaty was
exchanged in Hong Kong and that is the
official date that Hong Kong became a
British Crown Colony and for all his
troubles Sir Henry Pottenger was named
the first governor and today he is
immortalized on the street and the steps
named after him that run up from Khanna
Road and central across from the IFC and
Exchange square all the way up to where
Hollywood Road and Wyndham streets sort
of come together that was where my first
home was when I moved back there in 1989
now in between the time Elliott left
Hong Kong after the resumption of
hostilities and then after he was
dismissed control was left in the hands
of his Deputy Superintendent of trade AR
Johnston he of Johnston Road in Wan Chai
Johnston ran things until pottinger's
later returned in December of 1842 Lord
Palmerston he didn't get history I don't
think he got a mountain either but
he sure served as a timeless reminder
about how you just never know sometimes
the powers that be in London were
generally satisfied but there was this
nagging suspicion about what might
happen if you know if you look at a map
of China and see the variation in size
between Hong Kong and the rest of China
this really is an ant and an elephant
situation so this officially became the
first time the British government had to
consider the reality that any time they
wanted and if the Chinese could just get
their act together in a day or less tens
or even hundreds of thousands of Chinese
could swarm in and take Hong Kong back
anytime they wanted to and this what-if
scenario would sort of bubble to the top
every now and then over the hundred and
fifty five years of the colonial period
so nobody was rushing out yet to go buy
property in central at the peak the
feeling was to wait a bit and see if
China was really gonna swallow this
bitter pill you know of the Treaty of
Nanjing then once it looked like the
concrete was about to set then they went
to work October 8th 1843 more details
were worked out at the Treaty of the
Bogue where the city of Holman is
located site of the destruction of all
the opium under lines' shus orders they
settled the whole matter of how much
customs duty was to be paid by Britain
to China for all traded Goods a myriad
of other details related to shipping and
how to settle disputes and whatnot was
agreed to extraterritoriality was also
insisted upon and as far as the catalyst
that had led everyone to this moment in
history which of course was opium that
got swept under the rug for the time
being and no mention was made on paper
at least you know due to previous
agreements you know the opium trade it
was already outlawed so if no one over
there in China could enforce it didn't
have anything to do with official
British policy then as far as taking the
first giant steps to become an Emporium
of tray
as so many from William Jardine to
Charles Elliott now pottinger envisioned
that too was worked out the British said
Hong Kong was totally open for business
free trade allowed any boat sailing from
any of the five treaty ports that
carried all the you know necessary
permission and assorted official
documents issued by the Chinese
authorities was allowed to come to Hong
Kong to trade Chinese vessels would be
inspected by British customs inspectors
to make sure they were legit and you
know had their documentation and order
this was also part of the deal in other
words the British had said you China you
can control who you wish to allow to
sail here you know we're not just gonna
open this place up to anyone now this as
you can imagine in the eyes of the
merchant community this was a major
bummer they were in an uproar wondering
why the heck did you go and do that they
felt you leave these things like you
know who controls the waters and who
gets permission in China from the
Chinese authorities to trade in Hong
Kong I mean you were just asking for
trouble you know in complications and
corruption on a grand scale these
traders were all thinking don't regulate
a dang thing just allow everything to be
totally open up for grabs you know you
have something to sell are you looking
to buy come to Hong Kong no questions
asked
but now pottage er had gone ahead and
allowed that condition to be inserted
some say unknowingly because only the
Chinese version of the treaty contained
it so that through some major cold water
on the hopes and aspirations of the
trading community who had all expected
this would be the get around to the
notion of you know open trade only with
the five treaty ports we see already
five treaty ports weren't enough to
limiting well now they had to live with
it
after this pottinger's popularity
plummeted but he still got the street
named after him yes for this condition
the politicians ends up caving on the
issue the way it was supposed to work a
British customs officer would enforce
the control of track
originating in China this efficient
British administrator would police this
whole thing for China he would inspect
the papers that were issued by the China
government to make sure you know this
boat was legit
well now the go-around was that no
longer with this British officer inspect
any papers so essentially whether you
carried official documents or not nobody
checked so this was an early victory for
the business community one of a
multitude to follow
Pottinger never bounced back from this
and you know he'd be gone by May of 1844
so this is how things started off not
too good was a very unsteady arrangement
that was in place and it still needed
some major ironing out but no matter
what laia had the immediate task at hand
was organizing this new colonial
possession of theirs it needed some kind
of administration and order this all
began in earnest in early January 1843
the attitude in England was Hong Kong
was gonna be all about trade and nothing
else so one of the first things that was
called for was that the person in charge
of all the trade would also be the one
in charge of the government so the roles
of Superintendent of Trade and the
governor were to be combined into a
single person there was some talk about
putting the Hong Kong government under
the authority of the governor-general of
India but you know that idea didn't go
anywhere the immediate concern you know
Britain being Britain and all and the
thing that's also in our American DNA
was the matter of law and order Sir
Henry Pottenger had to start thinking
about how to frame a constitution that
would you know determine the powers and
authority of the chief executive who in
this case was himself and once this was
solved it had to be decided the process
of how members of the representative
body known forevermore as the
Legislative Council or ledge go would be
selected you know and what their powers
would be so once this was taken care of
the matter of the chief executive and
the legislative body the next thing was
to establish the courts that would frame
the laws and to you know
put in place the necessary police to
enforce the laws and to put that
interesting spin on everything now
Britain had to take this great invention
of theirs this system of law and order
and get it up and running at a place
where most of their subjects were local
Chinese with their own legal traditions
and legal sensibilities Hong Kong's
first constitution came in the form of
the Hong Kong charter of April 5th 1843
it called for the governor to be
assisted by an executive council xqo the
Legislative Council or ledge NGO was
given the powers to make laws but the
powers that be also gave extraordinary
powers to the governor to pass his own
laws outside let's go if he felt it was
necessary this was nothing like it is
today xqo and ledge Co consisted of
about two or three men each of you know
substantial stature and power and the
embryonic Hong Kong society they were
men who all had close access to the
governor and in no way was thus a
liberal democratic kind of thing in any
shape or form the members were selected
by the governor but final approval on
any choices made by the governor was
still you know confirmed in London among
the herd of elephants in the room was
the matter of Chinese who had been
living in Hong Kong mining their own
business and doing their own thing many
of them had been there since the ancient
days of the song or even before and more
Chinese were to make their way to Hong
Kong in the foreseeable future how to
deal with them and whose law were they
subject to should the British try and
govern them using Chinese sensibilities
whenever possible or should it be
clear-cut their British subjects now and
they must do at the British way from now
on well they figured out the smart thing
was after a great amount of heated
discussion was to allow the Chinese to
be subject to their own law at least for
the time being you know these were all
big decisions that I suppose any
founding father might have to deal with
but in addition to these big pillars
there
would hold society together there was
also the immediate necessity of creating
a civil administration stuff had to be
done and departments and offices needed
to be created to carry out the actual
execution of all these matters big and
small and people need to be registered
health and sanitation needed to be
addressed of so much needed to be done
yet I know I've been peppering this
episode with names of this one and that
one who got this street or Hill named
after him when I lived in Hong Kong back
in the 90s I walked and drove past these
street signs thousands of times Nathan
Road Deveaux Road Robinson Road what
came first Hollywood Road in Hong Kong
or Hollywood California well as we plod
through the early history of Hong Kong
in the coming episodes we'll meet all
these people who played a role and they
all played a major role in the
establishment of the colony men and
women Chinese and Western are going to
emerge who will make contributions that
will create that uniqueness that is Hong
Kong culture and society and we'll look
at as many as possible as we trace the
history of Hong Kong this post opium war
period
remember it's far from over we still
have the arrow war a second
anglo-chinese war Second Opium War it's
sometimes called and there's the Treaty
of TNG in 1858 the convention of peking
that's coming in 1898 next episode
hopefully we'll get through all that
then when we get to the 20th century
we'll look at how this place evolved
it's a great story filled with the most
amazing people I've already introduced a
couple of the grades so run run Shaw mr.
lee kai-shing in episodes 49 and 13 I
already covered the opium war although
not very thoroughly in episode CHP
number six so I didn't go into too many
details in this history of Hong Kong
episode I strongly urge you to go read
Julia lovell's book the opium war drugs
dreams and the making of China I urge
you to go wallow in the pleasure of this
addictive
book dr. Lovell is a world-renowned
scholar and translator of Chinese works
this one was quite good I have links to
it on Amazon and Barnes & Noble on my
website so I hope you'll stick with the
series go to podcast Awards calm and go
vote for your favorite podcasts the list
of nominees and categories is quite big
even I got nominated there might be some
good podcast you might stumble upon
amongst the lists of nominees so go vote
I think voting ends November 14th or
thereabouts
I was on the road for two weeks had a
fabulous time went to Guangzhou Ning
Guangzhou and Shanghai I'm gonna be on
TV so I'll put a link on my website so
you could go check that out I had a
great time in Hangzhou just scratch the
surface of that place can't wait to get
back I spent a lot of time getting an
intensive introduction to the whole
Chinese tea culture and I visited the
national tea museum there now that is
going to be a great topic for the future
you could really explain a lot of
Chinese history simply by telling the
story of the history of tea and how the
tea culture developed in China so that's
a project I have lined up for the future
the 18th Party Congress is in motion
right now these are very historic times
going on listen to the Seneca podcast
from October 25th Kaiser Gua Jeremy Gold
corn John Garneau Patrick Chava knack in
Jameel and early knee cadet Seneca
podcast was a great intro to the whole
process and the discussion on all the
behind the scenes speculation about the
lineup of the new Standing Committee was
excellent ok that's it everyone I'll try
and get part 4 out before the
Thanksgiving holiday going back to
Chicago to have a nice family reunion
and then a group of my peoples in Ningbo
are all flying out to LA we have to do a
whole grand tour of the nation to go
visit all our big customers this is
Laszlo Montgomery's
signing off from sunny and pleasant
Claremont California 971 one take care
everyone and I hope to see you next time
for another exciting episode of the
China history podcast